Balanced team roles
Team makeup and size can vary between product teams. What’s important is having the right balance of skills and perspectives to make
informed product decisions.

Your role as product manager

The product manager leads a team to discover and deliver a product that creates meaningful value for their company and users. You’ll
facilitate decision-making in service of shipping successful features. To do so, you’ll need to clearly understand who your users are and
what they need, what impact the business expects from the product, and who your stakeholders are. You’ll also need to collaborate
closely with your team.

Tanzu Labs product manager pair

In Tanzu Labs projects, we pair client product managers with a Tanzu Labs product manager who will guide and support the client
product manager throughout the project. This pairing partner helps client product managers understand their role on a balanced team
and learn how to take a lean/agile approach to product management. By applying the “I do, we do, you do” approach over the course
of the project, client product managers will gradually take the lead, with the Tanzu Labs partner transitioning to a supporting role.

Other roles on your team
These are the most common roles you’ll see on a balanced team. However, your team’s roles may differ slightly depending on
your product.

engineers
Engineers implement stories from the backlog. They also assist with story estimation in the iteration planning meeting. Engineers guide
the implementation and help you understand the technical implications of product decisions. You’ll help them gain an understanding of
what product success looks like, and work together to validate your backlog’s prioritization.

Anchor
One engineer is designated as the anchor. The anchor ensures that the team makes sound technical decisions, that engineering
practices are healthy and appropriate, that new and junior engineers get up to speed quickly, and that the engineering team
collaborates well with product management and design. The anchor also ensures that the team collectively owns the codebase and
understands the engineering decisions that are made. You’ll collaborate more closely with your anchor than with the other engineers
on your team.

Designer
Designers deliver value in the form of design decisions. Their job is to deeply understand the users in order to define solutions that
are desirable, useful, and usable. You’ll work closely with your designers, pairing on user research to validate critical user and solution
assumptions before adding development work to the backlog.

Delivery lead
Each team has a Tanzu Labs delivery lead. The delivery lead is responsible for the client relationship and the overall success of the
project from the perspective of both the client and Tanzu Labs. If needed, the delivery lead also helps to unblock the team and
provide day-to-day support.

Stakeholder and collaborators
We often work closely with marketing, compliance, risk, infrastructure teams, legal, and other stakeholders. A good general rule
for groups like this is to assign a point person, establish a regular touchpoint, and provide visibility into each other’s roadmaps
and/or backlogs with some ability to influence them. If it makes sense, we make members of these groups co-locate with us on
our balanced team.
