Dropbox

explainer video
Dropbox is an extremely popular service for hosting
and sharing files that’s used by 500 million people
and 200,000 businesses. Dropbox’s early leap-of-
faith assumption was that file synchronization was a
problem most people didn’t know that they had,
but if Dropbox could provide a superior customer
experience, people would try it. The team faced two
challenges in testing this assumption:

At the time, Dropbox as a concept was difficult for
customers to understand because there was
nothing else quite like it available.
Dropbox is a highly sophisticated technical
product, which made it impossible to demonstrate
as working software without actually building it.
Instead of investing years in building the actual
product, the team decided to make an explainer video to show how Dropbox works. The video attracted hundreds of thousands of
visitors to the Dropbox site and grew its waiting list from 5,000 to 75,000 people.

Zappos

Wizard of Oz
Zappos is an online retailer with $2 billion in annual revenue. It was acquired by Amazon in 2009.

When Zappos was founded in 1999, people weren’t yet accustomed to buying shoes and clothes online. Founder Nick Swinmurn’s leap-
of-faith assumption was that selling shoes online was a viable business idea. Instead of buying inventory and creating an online store, he
headed to his local mall, photographed pairs of shoes, and posted them for sale on a simple website.

Whenever a customer placed an order, Nick would go back to the mall, purchase the shoes, and ship them to the customer. This
enabled the Zappos team to quickly learn that people were willing to buy shoes online. They also learned about customer demand and
which styles sold best.

Airbnb

Concierge test
Airbnb is a global accommodation rental service with annual revenue of $900 million.

In 2007, Airbnb’s founders wanted to start a business. As they could barely afford their rent, they decided to offer their apartment (they
were also roommates) as cheap accommodation for design conference participants coming to San Francisco. They photographed their
loft, posted the photos online, and shared the link with some friends they knew were planning to attend the conference; those friends, in
turn, shared the link even more widely. Soon, they had three paying guests. This enabled them to test (and validate) that people were
willing to stay in a stranger’s home rather than a hotel.

Still image from Dropbox’s explainer video
