Team rhythm
A healthy lean and agile team has a strong and consistent rhythm. Each week is punctuated by a small set of standing meetings.

DAILY meetINGS pUrpOSe YOUr rOLe
Office standup Kick off the day with “new faces,” “helps,”
“interestings,” and “events.”
Announce new teammates or guests.
Ask for help if you need it.
Share things you’ve learned that could help other teams.
project standup Check in on everyone’s progress, plan,
and blockers.
Understand blockers and their implications on the current priorities.
Remind everyone of action items and upcoming milestones.
Make sure team members take turns facilitating standup.
WeeKLY meetINGS pUrpOSe YOUr rOLe
Optional: pre-Ipm Ensure the week’s backlog includes
stories that are ready to be estimated
and discussed in the IPM.
Ensure stories are well written.
Confirm the splitting of stories with input from the developers.
Iteration planning
meeting (Ipm)
Estimate the complexity of the
iteration’s backlog of prioritized user
stories that the engineers can pick up
for implementation (product manager
leads).
Communicate the user value and business value of each story.
Clarify any confusion and update stories.
Confirm the priority of stories with input from the developers.
Sponsor and
stakeholder update
Share the team’s progress in terms of
validated learning and working
software, demo the working product,
raise blockers, give an update against
KPIs, and share what the team plans
next.
Prepare the agenda with your anchor and designer.
Use your product roadmap to explain what the team is working
on and why.
Frame your demo in the context of the outcomes defined in your
product roadmap.
Speak to the empirical data guiding the team’s decisions.
Speak to your assumptions, both those you have tested and those
you plan to test soon.
If blocked, explain what the team needs, why, and by when.
retro (short for
“retrospective”)
Create a safe space for the team to
celebrate the past week’s successes,
discuss points of confusion, and reflect
on challenges
Openly and honestly share your experiences from the week.
Dig deeper on items raised by others to understand root causes
