Your role as product manager
Product managers, in close collaboration with their teams, help their company ship the right product. Increase your effectiveness in this
role by familiarizing yourself with the set of tools, techniques, and practices described in this playbook. They’ll help you build products
by defining and iterating toward the right outcomes, while continuously validating and iterating toward the right solution in a way that
will enable you to be responsive to changing user demands and market realities.

Articulate the product vision and product strategy
So that we know why we’re undertaking the effort of building the product, and what our plan for doing so is.
Pages 13–
establish an outcome-oriented product roadmap
So that we have clear outcomes to prioritize our work against, and can communicate to sponsors and stakeholders
how the product is likely to evolve over time.
Pages 17–
establish and track against measurable objectives
So that we know whether or not we’re on the right path.
Page 19
Continually de-risk product direction
So that we only build the features we should build, based on validated customer problems and business
opportunities, and increase the likelihood that the product will be successful in the market.
Pages 20–
prioritize features
So that we’re always working on the most valuable thing.
Pages 28–
manage the backlog
So that the product team has a shared focus across tactical design and development work.
Pages 30–
Decide when to ship software
So that we know why we’re undertaking the effort of building the product, and what our plan for doing so is.
Page 39
Help the team maintain a sustainable pace
So that we can go fast forever and not burn out or lose motivation.
Page 40
Communicate effectively
So that the product team, stakeholders, and sponsors are all aligned and we maintain momentum.
Page 41
Understand the product vision
The product vision describes the future we’re trying to create through our product, and how our product intends to contribute to our
company’s larger purpose.
Vision
The product vision describes the WHAt and the WHY. It’s highly aspirational and long term, and as such, realizing it may take several
years (approximately five or more).
the product vision is your true north
The product vision states what the product could ultimately become in support of your company’s overarching purpose. It reflects
the core values, motivations, and intentions of a team or company. It’s often referred to as a team’s “true north,” in that it defines
the product’s direction and guides the team’s every decision and action.
Your product vision should communicate:
Who you’re creating the product for
What needs or desires the product will address
What benefits the product will create
Why you need a product vision
Ideation and experimentation alone will not enable us to create great products. Without a vision, we’re left to aimlessly iterate towards
some unknown destination. If we don’t know where we want to go, how will we know if we’re getting there?
Your product vision helps tell the story of your product. It explains what you hope to achieve and sets the direction for where you’re going.
A compelling product vision should accomplish the following:
Help others understand your product and why it matters.
Align, guide, and motivate everyone involved to make the product successful.
Create focus and enable effective collaboration in the midst of rapidly changing conditions.
Who defines the product vision?
Depending on how your organization is structured, your product vision might be defined by senior product or business leaders like
CPOs or CEOs. At a start-up, it might be the founder. At an enterprise, it might be a product owner, director, or VP. If this is the case,
you need to make sure you clearly understand their vision. Write down what you understand it to be and validate it with them.
Clearly display your product vision
Post your product vision somewhere in your workspace where it’s clearly visible to everyone! That way, it’ll be a constant reminder
of what you’re working towards.
examples
Amazon: Our vision is to be earth’s most customer-centric company; to build a place where people can come to find and discover
anything they might want to buy online.
LinkedIn: To connect the world’s professionals to make them more productive and successful.
Spotify: To enable people to have music moments everywhere.
eXAmpLeS

Amazon: Our vision is to be earth’s
most customer-centric company; to
build a place where people can come
to find and discover anything they
might want to buy online.

LinkedIn: To connect the world’s
professionals to make them more
productive and successful.

Spotify: To enable people to have
music moments everywhere.

Craft a compelling product vision
Getting to the right vision statement for your product can be challenging and take some time.

Best practices for creating a good product vision

Keep it short
It’s important that your product vision is easy to understand, remember, and communicate. Try to keep it to one or two sentences.

Align it with your company vision
Your vision should clearly communicate how your product will contribute to your company’s larger purpose. If your company has one
product, then your company vision also makes for a great product vision. If your company has a portfolio of many products, then you
should align your product vision with your particular business unit or group’s reason for being.

Focus on the user
The product vision should answer who the product is intended for, what needs or desires the product satisfies for its users, and what
benefit(s) those users can expect to experience by using the product.

Avoid specific solutions
Your vision should describe the positive impact your product is intended to have. It shouldn’t explain what your product is or how it
works—you’ll figure those things out through your product strategy and product roadmap. If your vision makes any statements about
particular features or technology choices, it will limit you later on, preventing you from being flexible to new information and changing
circumstances.

make it big and ambitious
A bold product vision will help you remain flexible in terms of the product strategy you pursue and how. It will enable you to expand
and develop both your product and your business over time as the market changes, particularly what customers need and want.

be inspirational
The product vision should be something that people care about and can connect with. If it clearly states the benefits you’re looking to
create for others, you’re already halfway there. A vision that matters will motivate the team when things get tough, make people excited
to work on the product, help attract new team members, and connect your product with the right customers.

be unique
Explain what sets your product apart from other alternatives, and why it matters. This will help you connect with the right customers and
attract new team members who want to contribute to making the product vision real.

Iterate
Make sure that even existing products, not just new ones, have a clear vision statement. If your vision stops being aspirational or
motivational, or if it doesn’t ring true for customers, articulate a new and better vision statement.

Get validation
It may feel challenging to come up with a good product vision. The more time you spend talking to your customers and users, as well as
the people running your group or company, the clearer your vision will become. Use their feedback to understand whether your vision
resonates, and iterate until you get to something that feels right.

Action: Work together with your team to capture your product vision statement. Make sure it’s shared with your team and accessible
so they can see and refer to it regularly.

Understand the product strategy
Your product strategy is a high-level plan for realizing your product vision. It defines your path forward by addressing the challenges
you must overcome and the initiatives you believe will help you do so.
Strategy
The product strategy explains HOW we’ll realize our product vision. It might span several years.
Strategy is the practice of figuring out how to get from here to there
Product strategy is about figuring out what product to make such that we achieve one or more goals under conditions of high
uncertainty. Consequently, strategy is also about knowing what not to build, what to say no to, and why.
Whether you’re part of a large enterprise or a start-up, your
product strategy should always be in the service of your
product vision, which provides the context for why you’re
building the product in the first place. The vision is what
inspires us and the strategy is what gets us to the vision.
The product strategy covers a set of answers to questions
about the path forward:
Who are your key customers and users?
Which problems do you intend to solve for your key
customers and users to realize your business objectives?
How is your solution different from others?
Which market(s) will you focus on (vertical
and geographical)?
How will you price and market your product?
How will you measure success?
Strategy is about making choices around where we should invest
As product managers, we’re inundated with requests and ideas. How do we know what to say no to? We can’t do everything, because
the time, money, and resources we have available to invest in our product are finite. Additionally, a product that does everything for
everyone will do nothing well for anyone—and by the time we launch it, our competition may have raised the stakes beyond our grasp.
We need some way of knowing that we’re working on the right things and are making good progress towards our vision. A product
strategy helps us identify the right objectives and decide where to invest to best achieve those objectives.
Who defines the product strategy?
It might be you, or it might be your management team—your group/business unit director, or your VP of product.
“The product strategy is our sequence of products we plan to deliver on the path to realizing the vision.”
MARTY CAGAN
Action: Work to articulate and define your product strategy to realize your product vision. Make sure product strategy is shared with
your team and accessible so they can see and refer to it regularly.
Where we
are now
Our chosen approach

Where we
want to end up
(vision)
What stands
in between
ACtION:

Work to articulate and define your
product strategy to realize your
product vision. Make sure product
strategy is shared with your team and
accessible so they can see and refer to
it regularly.
Plan around outcomes, not features
Your roadmap communicates how you intend to realize your strategy. It aligns the product work to overarching business goals and
helps communicate the current and future state of your product.

roadmaps facilitate alignment and cross-team coordination
Your roadmap might be your most important communication tool as a product manager. It creates visibility into your work for people
outside of your immediate product team. It helps product sponsors, stakeholders like sales, marketing, and customer support, and
other product teams understand your product vision, your goals, and the steps you intend to take to achieve those goals.

You can and should use your roadmap to help stakeholders, collaborators, and product sponsors understand what’s coming up next
and to coordinate joint efforts and dependencies with other teams. By clearly communicating your goals and priorities, you’ll help
surface important conversations early and keep the product work aligned with the needs and priorities of the business.

be stubborn on vision and flexible on details
If you’ve seen a product roadmap before, chances are you’ve seen a comprehensive plan spanning several years, with detailed feature
specs, timelines, work estimates, and ROI predictions.

Lean and agile product teams approach product planning differently. No plan survives its first encounter with reality. We learn more
from building and releasing features than from planning. Additionally, we reduce risk in our deployments by deploying incrementally,
with smaller net changes. Remember, we work in build-measure-learn cycles! Therefore, we should spread our planning over the
course of the project instead of front-loading our work with detailed plans.

What matters is that we get to the right place in the end, not that we follow the exact path we envisioned when we set out on our
journey. Rather than trying to optimize for predictability in an inherently unpredictable world, we optimize for learning and responding
to change as quickly and cheaply as possible. With the product vision as our true north, we articulate a high-level direction for getting
to that vision (our product strategy) and define a plan for our immediate next steps (our product roadmap). As we move forward and
learn more than what we knew when we started, we refine and adjust our roadmap accordingly.

Outcomes matter more than features
The roadmap should emphasize the results we want to realize—like improved product and business metrics—rather than the features
we believe should be part of our product. This approach creates agreement on what success looks like while enabling us to be flexible
in our solution. Being outcome-oriented enables us to iterate towards the best solution as we learn more about the market, our
customers and users, and what’s technically feasible.

In addition to focusing us on the impact we want to have through our product, an outcome-based approach to planning helps us do
the following:

Create a shared understanding of why we’re building the product.
Create alignment among stakeholders, sponsors, and the product team.
Prioritize feature ideas and requests better, because our team mandate is clearer.
Feel more engaged in our work by being empowered to solve a problem.
Figure out which parts of our strategy are working and which are not.
Create an outcome-oriented product roadmap
Your product roadmap describes how your product is likely to evolve over time.

Work backwards from your vision and strategy

Your roadmap should consist of sequential goals—your strategy—that help build towards your vision. To define your goals, identify
the key challenges you need to overcome first. Also look at any known strategic outcomes that have been defined by the business.
Outcomes are the important and measurable impacts we want to create for our customers and our business, like increased market
share, more paying customers, or less tech debt.

You should have clarity on the following:

The problems that need to be solved
How you intend to solve them
How you’ll know you’ve solved them
Identify the work that needs to get done first

Once you know your business goals, capture your assumptions about how you might reach those goals. You probably want to identify
and validate your assumptions about what customer problems you need to solve, the features that solve those problems, how you
might design and implement those features, the business value the solution would deliver, and possibly also how you’d market and
operationalize the product.

When you prioritize assumptions to validate product work to execute on, ask yourself the following:

What dependencies do you need to solve first?
What do you need to learn first? This will help you create a list of learning objectives, features, and activities you believe will help
make an impact against your business’s strategic objectives.
Plan across three horizons

To communicate the rough order of your priorities, organize your roadmap into
three time horizons:

Current: This is work you’re doing now.
Near term: This is work coming up soon.
Future: This is work you’re thinking of doing but need to research more.
It’s most important to have clarity on your first few goals. Your roadmap will
evolve and change over time, wand the further out a goal
is, the more it’s likely to change before you get to it.

Roadmap design principles

Communicate the direction you plan to go in to realize your vision.
Assume uncertainty and change; optimize for learning and responding.
Frame the work around desired outcomes, not outputs.
Make sure your roadmap is easy to update and share.
Action: Create an outcome-oriented product roadmap and make sure you include input from design and engineering. The roadmap
should also be shared with the team so they can refer to it as they would the vision and strategy.

Current Near term Future
Example: HomeWiFi’s outcome-oriented product roadmap
Meet HomeWiFi, a provider of home Wi-Fi systems.

Company vision

HomeWiFi’s vision is to provide a superior in-home Wi-Fi service that just works.

Current state

HomeWiFi targets affluent homeowners who own one or several large properties. Through customer research, HomeWiFi has learned
that these homeowners want home connectivity with a high level of convenience, reliability, and speed as they use their networks
primarily for home security and secondarily for communication and entertainment.

HomeWiFi gets a sizable share of its new customers through the third-party installer market. These installers help customers get their
Wi-Fi network up and running. They also monitor the network post-installation on behalf of the customer to ensure that everything is
running smoothly. Homeowners often have a long-standing relationship with their installers. They expect a responsive, high-touch
customer service experience provided directly by their installer, either in person or remotely.

Opportunity

HomeWiFi doesn’t currently offer third-party installers any tools for working with its systems, which makes its systems more challenging
to install and support, and compromises upper-end installers’ promises to their affluent homeowner customer segment to provide
superior customer service.

To be more competitive in the upper-end installer market, HomeWiFi has decided to develop an application to help installers
troubleshoot networking issues.

Product vision

Become the tool that enables HomeWiFi installers to be the smartest and most efficient installers in the industry.

Product strategy

Create a dashboard that enables installers to detect, troubleshoot, and resolve networking issues remotely before the customer notices.

example: HomeWiFi’s outcome-oriented product roadmap

CUrreNt NeAr term FUtUre
Desired outcomes Installers can solve customer
issues without making customer
visits
Installers do not need to call
HomeWiFi tech support
Installers can resolve customer
issues in under 60 minutes
Key challenges • Installers cannot reboot
customer networks remotely
Installers forget to complete
their registration process
- Installers don’t have a way to
push firmware upgrades to
nodes
- Installers forget to complete
their registration process
- Installers don’t have visibility into
historical information about the
network
Success metrics 80% of issues are resolved
remotely
80% decrease in tech support calls
from installers
90% of issues are solved in 60
minutes or less
Features (To be defined, designed and
validated)
(To be defined, designed and
validated)
(To be defined, designed and
validated)
Establish and track against measurable objectives
To know whether we’re on the right track to deliver on our product goals, we need to establish clear objectives and metrics.

Goals change throughout the product lifecycle

Goals have a long time frame, articulate a high-level outcome we strive toward, and may not be directly tangible or measurable. They’re
our desired outcomes and are often strategic in nature, such as “increase sales” or “keep customers happy.” Your goals will likely
depend on what stage you’re at in your project and with your product, which in turn will determine what question(s) you’re looking to
answer. Early on in the product lifecycle, we seek to validate a product. Later on, when we have a validated product, we look to optimize
our business model as much as possible.

Objectives make goals more achievable

Objectives are the specific, measurable, achievable, and tangible actions we take to realize our goals. One goal can be broken down
into several objectives, which helps us break down a big challenge into many smaller challenges. A good practice is to make sure that
your objectives are SMART: specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and time-bound.

Clear goals and objectives help minimize waste and maximize value

It’s important that we have complete clarity on why we invest time in various activities, such as talking to customers, exploring
technology X, or building feature Y. Everything we spend time, money, and effort on tries to help us realize an important objective.

Metrics enable us to track progress

Metrics are numbers that define standard measurements that are important to us. Metrics that help us assess how well we’re doing
against key business objectives are called key performance indicators (KPI). It’s important to take note of your baseline metrics before
making any changes so that you can compare the before and after or run split tests.

Beware of vanity metrics

Good metrics are actionable, which means they do one or more of the following:

They tie back to specific and repeatable tasks that you can improve upon, and to your product and business goals.
They’re expressed as a ratio of two things, like the percentage of users who make a purchase.
They have a time component, which enables you to see change over time so that you know whether you need to take action.
Vanity metrics are numbers that tell us about the current state and often make us feel great because they are big, but offer no insight
into how we got to where we are or what to do next. Examples include total number of visitors and total number of downloads.

Tying it all together

example: Online retailer

Goal: Improve customers’ satisfaction with our site experience
Objective: Improve site performance
KpI: Increase site availability measured over the last month from 97.5 percent to 99.5 percent
example: Online media property

Goal: Improve profitability
Objective: Increase banner ad revenue
KpI 1: Visitor loyalty (average number of returning visits per month)
KpI 2: Clickthroughs (average number of banner ad clicks, per user, per month)
example: On-demand car service

Goal: Create a mobile app customers love
Objective: Become a top-rated app (i.e., greater than 4.5 stars) in the iOS App Store
KpI: Average iOS App Store rating
Action: Define and add Goals, SMART objectives, and KPI at each time horizon of your outcome-oriented roadmap. This will help the
team focus their efforts appropriately.

Continually de-risk product direction
We’ll have many ideas for our product. How do we know which ones are good and which are bad?

Untested assumptions create risk

Before executing on product ideas, teams should clarify their thought process and test their ideas so that they move forward with
confidence. An untested assumption is something that a team believes to be true without corroborating evidence. Moving ahead
without validation is risky for the team because it could lead to wasted effort. We need to answer some important questions before
we’re ready to build a product.

Uncover risks with these questions

product risks

Do we have a meaningful problem to solve?
Can we validate a minimum viable solution that people find useful?
Can we scale that solution?
Customer risks

Are there enough people who experience this pain point?
Can we effectively reach these people?
Can we effectively reach these people at scale?
business risks

Will a sufficient number of people pay enough for the product?
Can we define cost and revenue structures that enable us to have a sustainable business?
technology risks

Can we implement the solution well?
Can we maintain and continue evolving the product over time?
team risks

Can we take action and move forward effectively? Do we have access to users? Do we have access to the business context we need?
Can we ship to production? Can we maintain a sustainable pace as a team?
Do we have a clear shared focus, so that we can move quickly and do the right thing?
Do we have the right skills and perspectives available and access to all the inputs we need to make good decisions?
Our initial attempts to answer these questions are assumptions until proven valid through empirical data. It’s when we make product
decisions based on assumptions—rather than on careful analysis of data—that we accumulate risk.

How do we de-risk our product?

Generally speaking, we want to do the following:

Validate a meaningful problem. This is a need or desire that’s strongly felt by a sufficient number of people.
Validate a solution that is feasible, desirable, and viable. This is a way to address the need or desire such that people are satisfied,
and will pay for it.
Validate a viable business model. This is a plan for building, providing, and maintaining the product in a way that makes money.
To achieve these goals, we have to continuously prioritize our riskiest assumptions, design and run experiments, analyze the experiment
data, and determine whether our assumptions were validated or invalidated.

Action: Articulate and prioritize the riskiest assumptions that could derail your efforts, adding them in alignment with your roadmap time
horizons. Track whether these assumptions are tested and validated (or invalidated) and use these learnings to adjust your plans
whenever necessary.

Create a lean canvas
The lean canvas helps us stay disciplined when it comes to documenting and validating our riskiest business model hypotheses.
(Source: https://leanstack.com/lean-canvas )

The product is only one component of a successful business

It’s important to remember that your product alone doesn’t make for a successful business. You also need to ensure the product is
driving business impact. The lean canvas helps us capture and systematically mitigate the riskiest aspects of creating a business. Think
of it as a topographical map for developing and validating a business plan. It’s an important tool to help us stay aligned around what a
successful business looks like.

The lean canvas was developed to help entrepreneurs define new products. It can also be used to clarify how an existing product drives
business impact, and where there may be opportunities for optimization.

Components of a lean canvas
A lean canvas consists of a number of key components:

problem: Our customers’ top three underserved or unaddressed needs
Solution: The top three features we believe will address our customers’ problem
Key metrics: The key activities we measure
Unique value proposition: A clear and concise message that states how we’re unique and worth engaging with
Unfair advantage: Something we have that can’t be easily bought or copied
Channels: Our path to our customers
Customer segments: Our target customers
Cost structure and revenue streams: How we plan to spend and make money
Problem
Existing alternatives
List your top 1-3 problems List your top 1-3 problems
Single, clear, compelling message
that states why you are different
and worth paying attention to.
List your X for Y analogy (e.g.
Youtube = Flickr for videos).
Something that cannot be
easiy bought or copied
List your target customers
and users
List the characteristics of
your ideal customers.
List your sources of revenue.
List how these problems
are solved today
List your fixed and variable costs.
High-level concept Early adopters
Solution Unique value
proposition
Cost structure Revenue streams
Unfair advantage
List the key numbers that tell
you how your business is doing.
List your path to customers
(inbound or outbound).
Key metrics Channels
Customer segments
The product development cycle
We use a “build-measure-learn” feedback cycle to continuously turn uncertainties and assumptions into facts. Starting with ideas, we
identify our riskiest assumptions, build simple tests, run those tests, analyze the test data, and then use what we learn to inform our next
steps. In other words, we don’t treat product definition, design, development, and testing as separate phases. Instead, we do all of
these activities in parallel via short and frequent cycles throughout the product lifecycle.

Lea
rn
B
u
il
d
M
ea
su
re
The
feedback
loop
Learn from data analysis whether to pivot or persevere
ACTIVITIES:
Validate or invalidate the riskiest assumptions about personas, choose the top problems
to solve review existing soltions, test the desirability of a solution, determine the feasability
of a solution, assess the viability of the product, review the sustainability of the business
model, optimize that business model
Build small and simple tests to collect metrics
ACTIVITIES:
Interview scripts, value propositions, prototypes, minumum viable products, usability tests
Measure test results
ACTIVITIES:
Customer observations and interviews, split tests, real-time monitoring, funnel analysis,
cohort analysis, search engine marketing
Why?

We work within this cycle to reduce the risk of spending time, money, and effort building software that delivers no meaningful or
impactful value to the business or the user.

Measuring progress

We look at two things to determine if we’re making progress:

Validated learning, which removes the risk in our product and business.
Working software, which delivers value to our customers, and thus to our business.
Risk increase without
user validation
Risk stays low with
frequent validation
Product risk over time
Risk from building wrong stuff
Time spent building stuff
Test your leap-of-faith assumptions
It’s no longer good enough for a product manager to say, “I think users want this feature.” Instead, you need to ask, “What outcome do
we predict this feature will have?” and validate your answer with empirical data.

Hypothesis-driven management

Hypothesis-driven product management is the practice of treating the development of new products as a series of experiments. Instead
of formulating requirements, we formulate hypotheses along with some validation criteria that state how strong of a signal we need to
consider the hypothesis to be true. We use what we learn from each experiment to iterate on our ideas until we get where we want to
go, or until we determine that the product isn’t viable and cancel the effort.

Leap of faith assumptions

These are the riskiest assumptions we make about our idea; if we get them wrong, our product will fail. Our riskiest assumptions should
align with the business outcomes or product goals we’re working toward. By identifying our riskiest assumptions early and testing them
through experiments, we dramatically reduce the uncertainty associated with our product ideas. Instead of trying to get it right from the
start, we try to get it right one small piece at a time. We test our risky assumptions systematically in order of potential impact:

problem/solution fit: Have we found a problem worth solving? Can we solve it?
product/market fit: Have we built something the market wants?
Scale: Have we found a sustainable business model?
Experiments test our assumptions

A lean experiment is the smallest experiment we can run to quickly test our assumption. We start small and fast and then increase the
scale and scope of our experiments over time. An experiment consists of three parts: a hypothesis, a test, and validation criteria.

The hypothesis is a falsifiable version of our assumption. Remember to make sure you’re only testing one variable in each hypothesis;
otherwise, you won’t get reliable data.

The test is how we intend to validate our hypothesis, proving it to be true or false.

The validation criteria is the evidence we need to consider the hypothesis true.

Experiment template

Hypothesis
We believe that will result in .

test
We’ll do/make .

Validation criteria
We’ll know that our hypothesis is valid if we observe/measure .

Validation criteria

You need to determine how much evidence is enough for you to consider an assumption validated. Here are some general rules to
consider:

During discovery, talk to as many people as possible.
During usability testing, five people will help you identify 80 percent of the issues.
If your organization is new to hypothesis-driven product development, define your validation criteria based on what you need to feel
confident to justify the product decision.
Example: A lean experiment for HomeWiFi
HomeWiFi has identified an initial set of leap-of-faith assumptions. It decides to test the following assumption first because it believes
this assumption poses the greatest risk to the success of the installer dashboard, if proven invalid.

Leap-of-faith assumption: Customers feel comfortable sharing ownership of their networks with their
installers

Installers currently use a customer-facing app to install new Wi-Fi networks. The installers will typically make themselves the owner of a
customer’s network and maintain that ownership post-installation, which ensures them continued access so that they can monitor and
troubleshoot the network on an ongoing basis.

Because the installer accesses private network data without receiving explicit permission from the customer, however, a big privacy
issue is created.

In order to give installers what they need to provide the best possible service—reliable access to the customer’s network—while also
giving the customer what they need to feel safe regarding who has access to their data—the ability to grant and revoke network
access—HomeWiFi must validate its assumption that customers are willing to share network ownership with their installer.

HomeWiFi plans to test this assumption twice before building the new installer dashboard app. It will first test it without building any
software at all (Lean experiment 1). Assuming the first experiment passes its validation criteria, HomeWiFi will run a second
experiment in which it builds a new feature in the consumer app (Lean experiment 2). these experiments will enable HomeWiFi to
test a core assumption relatively quickly and cheaply.

Lean experiment 1

Hypothesis
We believe that giving homeowners the ability to share network
access will result in an increase of network ownership transfers
from homeowner to installer.

test
We’ll continue to use the consumer app to install new customers’
networks, and while doing so, ask the customer if they agree to
transfer network ownership to the installer (without building any
new features for this in the app).

Validation criteria
We’ll know that our hypothesis is valid if 90 percent of customers
agree to transfer network ownership to the installer during
network installation.

Lean experiment 2

Hypothesis
We believe that giving homeowners the ability to share and
revoke network access will result in an increase of network
ownership transfers from homeowner to installer.
test
We’ll enable customers to receive and approve/reject ownership
transfer requests from their installer via the customer app.
Validation criteria
We’ll know that our hypothesis is valid if 90 percent of customers
transfer their network ownership to their installer during network
installation and 75 percent of customers maintain shared network
ownership with their installer one month post-installation.
